.\" Copyright (c) 2024 CodexUniversalis (codexuniversalisprime@gmail.com)
.\"
.\" 2025-04-27 CodexUniversalis - Wrote the man page.
.\"
.TH LOGC4_FILELOG 3 2025-04-27 CodexUniversalis "LogC4 Library Manual"
.SH NAME
logc4_fileLog \- logs a formatted normal
.RB ( ASCII )
character string or a wide
.RB ( UTF-8 )
character string to the log file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <logc4.h>
.PP
.BI "int logc4_fileLog(const logc4_file_t *" logFile ", const logc4_msg_t " \
msgType ", const void *" format ", " ... );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR logc4_fileLog ()
function logs the given format string to the log file specified by
.IR logFile .
The format specifiers are equivalent to
.IR fprintf (3).
.PP
The argument
.I msgType
specifies the type of log message using the
.I logc4_msg_t
enum.
.PP
The argument
.I format
is either a normal
.RB ( ASCII )
character string or a wide
.RB ( UTF-8 )
character string depending on
.IR logFile->charType .
If passed a normal character string while
.I logFile
states the log file prints wide characters, then the given normal character \
string is converted to a wide character string and printed.
If passed a wide character string while
.I logFile
states the log file prints normal characters, then the given wide character \
string is converted to a normal character string and printed.
All
.B non-ASCII
characters are converted to their multi-byte equivalent.
If viewing the file in an editor that accepts
.B UTF-8
characters, then the multi-byte character will be displayed properly.
Otherwise, the multi-byte character may appear as many weird looking
.I ASCII
characters.
.PP
All subsequent arguments
.RB ( ... )
are substituted into the format string and the result is logged to the passed \
log file.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful execution,
.BR logc4_fileLog ()
returns the number of characters printed to the log file. Otherwise,
.I -1
is returned and the most recent system error will be specified by
.IR errno .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR errno (3),
.BR fprintf (3),
.BR logc4_file_t (7),
.BR logc4_msg_t (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by CodexUniversalis
.RI ( codexuniversalis@gmail.com ).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2025 CodexUniversalis. License
.IR MIT .
.SH GITHUB
Here is a link to the GitHub repository for the
.I LogC4
library:
\%https://github.com/CodexUniversalis/LogC4/.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 0.1.0 of the
.I LogC4
library. A description of the project, information about reporting bugs, and \
the latest version of this page, can be found at
\%https://projects.codexuniversalis.dev/C/LogC4/.
