.\" Copyright (c) 2024 CodexUniversalis (codexuniversalisprime@gmail.com)
.\"
.\" 2025-04-27 CodexUniversalis - Wrote the man page.
.\"
.TH LOGC4_STDLOG 3 2025-04-27 CodexUniversalis "LogC4 Library Manual"
.SH NAME
logc4_stdLog \- logs a formatted normal
.RB ( ASCII )
character string to standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <logc4.h>
.PP
.BI "int logc4_stdLog(const logc4_msg_t " msgType ", const bool " charType \
", const void *" format ", " ... );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR logc4_stdLog ()
function logs the given format string to 
.I stdout
or
.IR stderr ,
depending on the message type.
The format specifiers are equivalent to
.IR printf (3).
.PP
The argument
.I msgType
specifies the type of log message using the
.I logc4_msg_t
enum.
If the enum is
.IR LOGC4_ERROR ,
then the log message is printed to
.IR stderr .
.PP
The argument
.I charType
specifies the type of the
.I format
string being either a normal or a wide string.
If set to
.IR false ,
then nothing special happens. If set to
.IR true ,
then the given wide character string is converted to a normal string.
If passed a wide character string then the given wide character string is \
converted to a normal character string and printed.
All
.B non-ASCII
characters are converted to their multi-byte equivalent.
If viewing the file in an editor that accepts
.B UTF-8
characters, then the multi-byte character will be displayed properly.
Otherwise, passed a normal character string, nothing happens other than \
substitutions.
.PP
All subsequent arguments
.RB ( ... )
are substituted into the format string and the result is logged to the passed \
log file.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful execution,
.BR logc4_stdLog ()
returns the number of characters printed to either
.I stdout
or
.IR stderr .
Otherwise,
.I -1
is returned and the most recent system error will be specified by
.IR errno .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR errno (3),
.BR printf(3),
.BR logc4_msg_t (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by CodexUniversalis
.RI ( codexuniversalis@gmail.com ).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2025 CodexUniversalis. License
.IR MIT .
.SH GITHUB
Here is a link to the GitHub repository for the
.I LogC4
library:
\%https://github.com/CodexUniversalis/LogC4/.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 0.1.0 of the
.I LogC4
library. A description of the project, information about reporting bugs, and \
the latest version of this page, can be found at
\%https://projects.codexuniversalis.dev/C/LogC4/.
