.\" Copyright (c) 2024 CodexUniversalis (codexuniversalisprime@gmail.com)
.\"
.\" 2025-04-27 CodexUniversalis - Wrote the man page.
.\"
.TH LOGC4_FILEOPEN 3 2025-04-27 CodexUniversalis "LogC4 Library Manual"
.SH NAME
logc4_fileOpen \- opens a file for logging
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <logc4.h>
.PP
.BI "logc4_file_t *logc4_fileOpen(const char *" filePath ", bool " append \
", bool " charType ", bool " timeZone );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR logc4_fileOpen ()
function uses
.BR fopen ()
to get a file stream from the given
.I filePath
and puts it into the returned struct.
.PP
The argument
.I append
is to set the logging to append (write at end of file) text.
If set to
.IR false ,
then the file length is truncated and all previous text is overwritten, if it \
existed. If set to
.IR true ,
then the file is appended to and all previous text is kept.
.PP
The argument
.I charType
is to set the logging to use wide
.RB ( UTF-8 )
characters instead of normal
.RB ( ASCII )
characters. If set to
.IR false ,
then normal characters are used when printing to the log file.
If set to
.IR true ,
then wide characters are used when printing.
.PP
The argument
.I timeZone
is to set the desired timezone to be printed while logging.
Currently, only
.IR UTC ,
i.e.
.RI ( false ),
and the computer's local time, i.e.
.RI ( true ),
are the only timezones implemented.
Eventually, a set list of all recognized timezones will be implemented and \
will be specified using a string constant passed to this function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful execution,
.BR logc4_fileOpen ()
returns a
.I logc4_file_t
pointer.
If the passed
.I filePath
has already been opened or
.BR fopen ()
encountered a problem, then NULL is returned and
.I errno
was set by
.BR fopen ()
to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR errno (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR logc4_file_t (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by CodexUniversalis
.RI ( codexuniversalis@gmail.com ).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2025 CodexUniversalis.
License
.IR MIT .
.SH GITHUB
Here is a link to the GitHub repository for the
.I LogC4
library:
\%https://github.com/CodexUniversalis/LogC4/.
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of release 0.1.0 of the
.I LogC4
library.
A description of the project, information about reporting bugs, and the \
latest version of this page, can be found at
\%https://projects.codexuniversalis.dev/C/LogC4/.
